.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH isatapd 8 "July 10th, 2009" __version__ "ISATAP client for Linux"
.SH NAME
isatapd \- ISATAP client for Linux

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B isatapd
\fB\-\-help\fP
.br
.B isatapd
[ \fB\-\-daemon\fP ] [ \fB\-\-link\fP \fIdevice\fP ] [ \fBoptions\fP ] [ \fIrouter\fP ] [ \fI...\fP ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B isatapd
is a userspace program or daemon that sets up and maintains an ISATAP tunnel by using the kernels ISATAP capabilities, first introduced with 2.6.25. 

The program will create the tunnel, periodically query the specified routers, add them to the 
.I potential router list
and send periodic router solicitations. 
.B isatapd
will try to keep the tunnel up and running, even if the network topology changes.

See
.B NOTES
below for more information

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
\fB\-n \-\-name\fP \fIname\fP
Name of the tunnel interface. Default is \fIis0\fP for linkless tunnels and
\fIis_$LINK\fP for tunnels linked to \fI$LINK\fP.
.TP
\fB\-l \-\-link\fP \fIdevice\fP
Tunnel link device. If specified, tunnel will be restricted to that device, allowing multiple instances of
.B isatapd
with different tunnels. The tunnel can only exist as long as the link device is up and has a IPv4 address configured.

If unspecified, the outgoing IPv4 address will be guessed for the first
.I router
and the tunnel created accordingly. The tunnel device will only created, if there is a possible IPv4 source address to reach the first router.
.TP
\fB\-\-mtu \fIbytes\fP
Sets the MTU to 
.I value
for the tunnel device, minimum is 1280. If unspecified, the kernel will choose the MTU automatically, usually 1480.
.TP
\fB\-\-ttl\fP \fIhoplimit\fP
Set the tunnel hoplimit, default is 64. Specifying 'auto' or 'inherit' will make the tunnel inherit the ttl from the linked device.
.TP
\fB\-\-nopmtudisc\fP
Disable (IPv4) Path MTU Discovery on this tunnel. For this to work --ttl has to be set to inherit. Default: do Path MTU Discovery to reduce redundant fragmentation.
.TP
\fB\-r \-\-router\fP \fIrouter\fP
Set a potential router.
.B isatapd
will resolv the hostname, add the IPv4 address to the
.I PRL
and send periodic router solicitation messages. Up to 10 potential routers can be specified, the default is the unqualified domainname "isatap". 
.TP
\fB\-\-user\-rs\fP
Send router solicitations to potential routers from userspace. Default for Linux \<= 2.6.30.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-user\-rs\fP
Do not send router solicitation messages to potential routers from userspace. Default for Linux \>\= 2.6.31.
.TP
\fB\-i \-\-interval\fP \fIseconds\fP
Interval to check the PRL, to send router solicitations and to check the state of the tunnel and the infrastructure. Make sure to set it lower than the default lifetime in the router advertisements.

Default: 600 sec = 10 min
.TP
\fB\-\-daemon \-d\fP
fork to background. No logging is available yet.
.TP
\fB\-p \-\-pid\fP \fIfile\fP
Store the pid as plaintext to \fIfile\fP. The pid file will be write-locked to prevent multiple running instances. Useful for scripts and when running \fBisatapd\fP as a daemon.
.TP
\fB\-\-one\-shot \-1\fP
Set up the tunnel interface, the PRL, send router solicitations once and then exit. Make sure you use in-kernel router solicitations or a static configuration to keep the tunnel operating.

The interface can be manually configured using the
.B ip(8)
tool.
.TP
\fB\-v \-\-verbose\fP
increase verbosity
.TP
\fB\-\-quiet \-q\fP
decrease verbosity
.TP
\fB\-\-help \-h\fP
print usage
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fP
print version

.SH "EXIT STATUS"
On success \fIzero\fP is returned, otherwise a \fInon-zero\fP value is returned.

.SH "SIGNALS"
.TP
.B SIGHUP
Force sending router solicitations and recreate the tunnel, if neccessary. 
.TP
.B SIGINT SIGTERM
Gracefully shut down tunnel device and terminate.

.SH "SYSLOG"
.B isatapd
logs to stderr when run in foreground and to \fBsyslog\fP(3), using the facility \fILOG_DAEMON\fP. Verbosity can be controlled with the \fB\-v\fP and \fB\-q\fP switches.

.SH "NOTES"
.B isatapd
does not process any kind of network data, so it should be moderately safe against network based attacks. To create the tunnel device, root privileges are needed.

Linux kernel \<\= 2.6.30 does not send router solicitations to potential routers.
.B isatapd
can send router solicitatioins to \fIfe80::5efe:$IPv4\fP and \fIfe80::200:5efe:$IPv4\fP for every given potential router\'s IPv4 address.
If kernel support is detected,
.B isatapd
will prefer it over the userspace implementation. If you have problems, you can override this with 
.B --user-rs
and
.B --no-user-rs 
and make sure, your router is configured with a fully RFC compliant link local address. 

Whenever the tunnel link interface goes down or the source address for the local tunnel endpoint changes, the tunnel device will be destroyed and recreated, if possible. Note that till then your tunnel might be in a unusable state.

.SH AUTHORS
Sascha Hlusiak \<mail\@saschahlusiak.de\>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ip (8)
.BR syslog-ng (8)

.B http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc5214.txt
